README.md, before:

# billy-the-game
Billy the game is a personal project to create an open world 2D game, by using C++, OpenGL and other similar libraries to ease development. 
The goal is to learn basic rendering techniques, physics, memory 
management, data structures and anything else that might be used 
in the development of a game, featuring:
In Graphics with OpenGL:
- Reading models through assimp, rendering with one diffuse texture, and one specular map
- Deferred and forward rendering
- Shadows with simple shadow mapping
- View frustum culling and occlusion queries
- Screen Space Ambient Occlusion
- Water rendering with a grid  
In world building:  
- Importing maps generated from Tiled
- Draw call batching generated maps
In physics and interaction:  
- Custom collision detection
- QuadTree accelerated ray casting  
Other:  
- Several data structures created: Uniform grids, Circular buffers, HashTables, and several QuadTree variants
- Sequential memory allocation with custom allocators


## Current progress - billy the game
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/CWFcuDfG5MM/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWFcuDfG5MM&list=PLocuszpm1snUGVn5kgk-LlLE86c4E2u7H&index=11)

## Current progress - Ambient Occlusion
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/jtVoM0I_rxw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jtVoM0I_rxw&list=PLocuszpm1snUGVn5kgk-LlLE86c4E2u7H&index=10)

## Particles branch
Fluid simulation  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/GZs0-xvkecA/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZs0-xvkecA)

Rope and cloth  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/JzwKVZXjkoE/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzwKVZXjkoE)

3D jelly object  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/LectfDOBszc/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LectfDOBszc)

## Animation branch
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/_7ZKdgwjL7s/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_7ZKdgwjL7s)

## Build and run instructions
- Create a build folder.  
  - In the top level directory create folder:  {top-levell-directory}/build  
- Run cmake with destination the build folder, and source folder the top level directory  
  - Navigate into the build folder, and type: cmake ../  
- Compile the project  
  - Open the .sln project file with visual studio and build the project (For animation branch, build in Release because of cally3d libs or change the .lib file to the debug one)
- Locate the executable and copy on the same folder the dependencies  
  - The folders: assets, fonts, src/shaders, map files, config files
  - The dependencies: freetype271.dll, assimp-vc140-mt.dll

Commit message:

Day 20: Shadow receiving to terrain, normal map transformations

README.md, after:

# billy-the-game
Billy the game is a personal project to create an open world 2D game, by using C++, OpenGL and other similar libraries to ease development. 
The goal is to learn basic rendering techniques, physics, memory 
management, data structures and anything else that might be used 
in the development of a game, featuring:
In Graphics with OpenGL:
- Reading models through assimp
- Rendering with Phong shading (Point/Directional/Spot lights), one diffuse texture, and one specular map
- Deferred and forward rendering queues
- Shadows with simple shadow mapping
- View frustum culling and occlusion queries
- Screen Space Ambient Occlusion
- Water rendering with a grid algorithm  
- Terrain rendering with displacement and normal map through tessellation shaders  
In world building:  
- Importing maps generated from Tiled
- Draw call batching generated maps
In physics and interaction:  
- Custom collision detection
- QuadTree accelerated ray casting  
Other:  
- Several data structures created: Uniform grids, Circular buffers, HashTables, and several QuadTree variants
- Sequential memory allocation with custom allocators  


## Current progress - billy the game  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/CWFcuDfG5MM/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWFcuDfG5MM&list=PLocuszpm1snUGVn5kgk-LlLE86c4E2u7H&index=11)

## Ambient Occlusion  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/jtVoM0I_rxw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jtVoM0I_rxw&list=PLocuszpm1snUGVn5kgk-LlLE86c4E2u7H&index=10)

## Terrain rendering with tessellation shaders  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/jgliT0StyRw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgliT0StyRw)

## Particles branch
Fluid simulation  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/GZs0-xvkecA/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZs0-xvkecA)

Rope and cloth  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/JzwKVZXjkoE/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzwKVZXjkoE)

3D jelly object  
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/LectfDOBszc/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LectfDOBszc)



## Roadmap  
In Graphics:  
- Water rendering with Tessellation shaders and procedural functions instead of displacement maps
- Cloud rendering through volumetric rendering
- Replace Phong shading with Physically based rendering
- Other things like, Particle systems and instancing...  
In world building:  
- NPC dialogs, and inventory panels




## Build and run instructions
- Create a build folder.  
  - In the top level directory create folder:  {top-levell-directory}/build  
- Run cmake with destination the build folder, and source folder the top level directory  
  - Navigate into the build folder, and type: 
- Compile the project  
  - Open the .sln project file with visual studio and build the project (For animation branch, build in Release because of cally3d libs or change the .lib file to the debug one)
- Locate the executable and copy on the same folder the dependencies  
  - The folders: assets, fonts, src/shaders, map files, config files
  - The dependencies: freetype271.dll, assimp-vc140-mt.dll
